URL: https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-words-in-a-string/description/?envType=study-plan-v2&envId=top-interview-150

151. Reverse Words in a String

Given an input string s, reverse the order of the words.

A word is defined as a sequence of non-space characters. The words in s will be separated by at least one space.

Return a string of the words in reverse order concatenated by a single space.

Note that s may contain leading or trailing spaces or multiple spaces between two words. The returned string should only have a single space separating the words. Do not include any extra spaces.

 
Example 1:

Input: s = "the sky is blue"
Output: "blue is sky the"

Example 2:

Input: s = "  hello world  "
Output: "world hello"
Explanation: Your reversed string should not contain leading or trailing spaces.

Example 3:

Input: s = "a good   example"
Output: "example good a"
Explanation: You need to reduce multiple spaces between two words to a single space in the reversed string.

 
Constraints:

	1 <= s.length <= 104
	s contains English letters (upper-case and lower-case), digits, and spaces ' '.
	There is at least one word in s.

 
Follow-up: If the string data type is mutable in your language, can you solve it in-place with O(1) extra space?

## ✅ Approach

1. Trim leading and trailing spaces.
2. Split the string by whitespace using regex.
3. Reverse the array/list of words.
4. Join them with a single space.


##  Solutions

### Code

::: code-group

```kotlin
class Solution {
    fun reverseWords(s: String): String {
        return s.trim()
                .split("\\s+".toRegex())
                .reversed()
                .joinToString(" ")
    }
}
```
```Java
class Solution {
    public String reverseWords(String s) {
        String[] words = s.trim().split("\\s+");
        StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();
        for (int i = words.length - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
            sb.append(words[i]);
            if (i != 0) sb.append(" ");
        }
        return sb.toString();
    }
}
```

```Python
class Solution:
    def reverseWords(self, s: str) -> str:
        return " ".join(reversed(s.strip().split()))
```

```JavaScript
var reverseWords = function(s) {
    return s.trim().split(/\s+/).reverse().join(" ");
};
```

:::


### ⏱️ Time and Space Complexity

- **Time Complexity:** O(n)  
  We iterate over the string once to trim and split by spaces, and then again to reverse and join. Each operation is linear in the number of characters or words.

- **Space Complexity:** O(n)  
  Additional space is used to store the list of words and the final joined string.